Create season-of-docs-proposal.md (#99)
exercism/docs: season-of-docs-proposal.md

# Improve Exercism's docs to encourage new contributions

> ## About your organization

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## About your organisation
```

> Exercism is a not-for-profit organsiation that helps people develop and improve their programming skills through practice and mentoring.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Exercism is a not-for-profit organisation that helps people develop and improve their programming skills through practice and mentoring.
```

> Our platform is made up of over 200 GitHub repositories covering nearly 70 programming languages. 

Reviewer: > nearly

perhaps "close to" or "almost"

> Everything is Open Source. Since launching in 2013 we have helped over 500,000 people become better programmers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Everything is Open Source. Since launching in 2013, we have helped over 500,000 people become better programmers.
```

Good communication is at the heart of Exercism. 
Our platform is based around mentoring where strangers help each other understand and fill knowledge gaps.

> The product is also built by volunteers - so creating a fun, exciting and enticing place to build together is a key part of our mission, centered around empathy and kindness.

Reviewer: It might not matter but built and build is in the same sentence.
Perhaps "created by volunteers" or "collaborate together" instead.

## About your project

### Your project’s problem

> One of our challenges is that Exercism being such a large project can make it intimidating and overwhelming to know whether to start.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
One of our challenges is that Exercism being such a large project can make it intimidating and overwhelming to know where to start.
```

> Ensuring that contributors are able to find and adhere to our guidance, feel like they have a frictionless contribution experience, and that they can communicate clearly in the "Exercism way" with other contributors, is essential.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensuring that contributors are able to find and adhere to our guidance, have a seamless/ positive experience of contributing, and that they can communicate clearly in the "Exercism way" with other contributors, is essential.
```

> As we have developed tighter quality-control and conherence between different parts of the project, there is more to know to get started, so the barrier to contribute has become slightly higher.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As we have developed tighter quality-control and coherence between different parts of the project, there is more to know to get started, so the barrier to contribute has become slightly higher.
```

> We need to ensure that new contributors can find clear both overarching pathways to get started, and also the details when they need them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We need to ensure that new contributors can find both clear overarching pathways to get started, and also the details when they need them.
```

As part of the launch of our new version of the site launch soon, we have developed a whole "docs" section. You can preview it here: https://exercism.lol/docs

### Your project’s scope

The project has the following goals:
1. Work with Exercism's team to understand the gaps in our correct documentation.
2. Flesh out the structure with stubs for relevant docs, and crowd-source feedback on the best information to go into docs.
3. Create missing documentation and reorganise existing docs as required.
4. Welcome and incorporate feedback from our team of maintainers, and the wider community.
5. Help develop guidance to empower language tracks to create their own per-langauge documentation.

Work that is out-of-scope for this project:
- Working on natural-language translations
- Work on educational content for Exercism itself
- Work on indiviudal language-track's docs (other than working on an examplar language for point 5)

## Measuring your project’s success

We would consider the project successful if, after the completion of the project:

> - The community works to provide further document improvements (taking pride in our docs). Currently this rarely happens outside of the senior team, so any contributions would be a marked improvement.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The community contributes further documentation improvements (taking pride in our docs). Currently this rarely happens outside of the senior team, so any contributions would be a marked improvement.
```

> - The number new contributors making non-trivial changes to Exercism in the 6 months that follow publication increases by 100%.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The number of new contributors making non-trivial changes to Exercism in the 6 months that follow publication increases by 100%.
```

> - The number of PRs from existing contributions increases by 20% over the subsequent quarter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The number of PRs from existing contributors increases by 20% over the subsequent quarter.
```

## Project budget

| Item      | Cost | Running Total | Notes/justifications |
| ----------- | ----------- | ---- | ---- |
| Technical writer to structure docs, create documentation, and create guidance for future contributors | $12,000 | $12,000 | 

> | Supporting Volunteers to help provide guidance the technical writer   | $1,500 | $13,500 | 3 volunteer stipends x 500 each

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Supporting Volunteers to help provide guidance to the technical writer   | $1,500 | $13,500 | 3 volunteer stipends x 500 each
```

| TOTAL | | $13,500 |

## Additional information

The right technical writer will be as focused on clear and empathetic communication as on technical correctness.

> It is critical that our docs are written in a friendly and welcoming tone, and that then feel exciting and warm.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is critical that our docs are written in a friendly and welcoming tone, and that they feel exciting and warm.
```

> Making it clear to new (and existing) contributors that Exercism is a great place to spend your time is a critcial component of our docs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Making it clear to new (and existing) contributors that Exercism is a great place to spend your time is a critical component of our docs.
```

_This is a project proposal for Google's [Season of Docs](https://developers.google.com/season-of-docs) support._

---

# Improve Exercism's docs to encourage new contributions

## About your organization

Exercism is a not-for-profit organisation that helps people develop and improve their programming skills through practice and mentoring.
Our platform is made up of over 200 GitHub repositories covering nearly 70 programming languages. 
Everything is Open Source. Since launching in 2013 we have helped over 500,000 people become better programmers.

Good communication is at the heart of Exercism. 

> Our platform is based around mentoring where strangers help each other understand and fill knowledge gaps.

Author: ```suggestion
The heart of our platform is mentoring, where strangers help each other understand and fill knowledge gaps, and where empathetic communication is essential.
```

> The product is also built by volunteers - so creating a fun, exciting and enticing place to build together is a key part of our mission, centered around empathy and kindness.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The product is also built by volunteers - creating a fun, exciting and enticing place to build together is a key part of our mission, centered around empathy and kindness.
```

> The product is also built by volunteers - so creating a fun, exciting and enticing place to build together is a key part of our mission, centered around empathy and kindness.

Author: ```suggestion
The product is built by volunteers — so creating a fun, exciting and enticing place to build together is a key part of our mission.
```

## About your project

### Your project’s problem

> One of our challenges is that Exercism being such a large project can make it intimidating and overwhelming to know where to start.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
One of our challenges is that Exercism is a large project, which can make knowing where to start intimidating and overwhelming.
```

> Ensuring that contributors are able to find and adhere to our guidance, feel like they have a frictionless contribution experience, and that they can communicate clearly in the "Exercism way" with other contributors, is essential.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Ensuring that contributors have a frictionless contribution experience, are able to find and adhere to our guidance, and (most importantly) feel like they can communicate clearly in the "Exercism way" with our other contributors, is vital.
```

> As we have developed tighter quality-control and coherence between different parts of the project, there is more to know to get started, so the barrier to contribute has become slightly higher.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
As tighter quality-control and coherence between different parts of the project has developed , there is more new contributors have to understand to get started - so the barrier to contribute has become slightly higher.
```

> As we have developed tighter quality-control and coherence between different parts of the project, there is more to know to get started, so the barrier to contribute has become slightly higher.

Author: ```suggestion
As we have developed tighter quality-control and implemented firmer standards across different parts of the project, there is more that new contributes have to understand to get started, which has increased the barrier to contribute.
```

> As we have developed tighter quality-control and implemented firmer standards across different parts of the project, there is more that new contributes have to understand to get started, which has increased the barrier to contribute.

Author: ```suggestion
As we have developed tighter quality-control and implemented firmer standards across different parts of the project, there is more that new contributors have to understand to get started, which has increased the barrier to contribute.
```

> We need to ensure that new contributors can find both clear overarching pathways to get started, and also the details when they need them.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We need to ensure that new contributors can find both clear introductory paths and comprehensive supporting details when needed.
```

> Good documentation is absolutely critical to ensuring that new contributors can find pathways to get started, and not feel frustration while trying to help.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Good documentation is absolutely critical to ensuring that new contributors can find pathways to get started, and not get blocked or feel frustration while trying to help.
```

> Good documentation is absolutely critical to ensuring that new contributors can find pathways to get started, and not get blocked or feel frustration while trying to help.

Author: ```suggestion
Good documentation is absolutely critical to ensuring that new contributors can find pathways to get started, and not get blocked or feel frustration while trying to help.
We believe it is a crucial part of enabling Exercism to reach its potential.
```

> New contributors not only help Exercism grow, but more importantly improve the experience for hundreds of thousands of new students who use our platform each year.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
New contributors not only help Exercism grow, they provide important improvements in the experience for hundreds of thousands of new students who use our platform each year.
```

> As part of the launch of our new version of the site launch soon, we have developed a whole "docs" section. You can preview it here: https://exercism.lol/docs

Reviewer 3: Perhaps add a footnote that this is heavily WIP. The frontpage has a bunch of filler text and many of the links don't go anywhere.

> As part of the launch of our new version of the site launch soon, we have developed a whole "docs" section. You can preview it here: https://exercism.lol/docs

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
As part of the approaching launch of our new version, we have developed a whole "docs" section for the platform. You can preview it here: https://exercism.lol/docs
```

> As part of the launch of our new version of the site launch soon, we have developed a whole "docs" section. You can preview it here: https://exercism.lol/docs

Author: ```suggestion
As part of the launch of our new version of the site launch soon, we have developed a whole "docs" section. You can preview the WIP version here: https://exercism.lol/docs
```

### Your project’s scope

The project has the following goals:

> 1. Work with Exercism's team to understand the gaps in our correct documentation.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. Work with Exercism's team to understand the gaps in our existing documentation.
```

> 2. Flesh out the structure with stubs for relevant docs, and crowd-source feedback on the best information to go into docs.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
2. Flesh out the existing structure with stubs for relevant docs, and crowd-source feedback on the best information to go into docs.
```

3. Create missing documentation and reorganise existing docs as required.

> 4. Welcome and incorporate feedback from our team of maintainers, and the wider community.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
4. Welcome and incorporate feedback from our team of maintainers, and the wider Exercism community.
```

> 5. Help develop guidance to empower language tracks to create their own per-langauge documentation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
5. Help develop guidance to empower language tracks to create their own per-language documentation.
```

> 5. Help develop guidance to empower language tracks to create their own per-langauge documentation.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
5. Help develop guidance empowering language tracks to create their own per-langauge documentation.
```

Work that is out-of-scope for this project:
- Working on natural-language translations
- Work on educational content for Exercism itself

> - Work on indiviudal language-track's docs (other than working on an examplar language for point 5)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Work on individual language-track's docs (other than working on an examplar language for point 5)
```

> - Work on indiviudal language-track's docs (other than working on an examplar language for point 5)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Work on individual language-track's docs (other than working on an exemplar style guide for point 5)
```

### Your project’s scope

The project has the following goals:
1. Work with Exercism's team to understand the gaps in our correct documentation.
2. Flesh out the structure with stubs for relevant docs, and crowd-source feedback on the best information to go into docs.
3. Create missing documentation and reorganise existing docs as required.
4. Welcome and incorporate feedback from our team of maintainers, and the wider community.
5. Help develop guidance to empower language tracks to create their own per-language documentation.

Work that is out-of-scope for this project:
- Working on natural-language translations
- Work on educational content for Exercism itself
- Work on individual language-track's docs (other than working on an examplar language for point 5)

## Measuring your project’s success

We would consider the project successful if, after the completion of the project:

- The community contributes further documentation improvements (taking pride in our docs). Currently this rarely happens outside of the senior team, so any contributions would be a marked improvement.

> - The number of new contributors making non-trivial changes to Exercism in the 6 months that follow publication increases by 100%.

Reviewer 4: > The number of new contributors making non-trivial changes

We may want to provide a description of what non-trival is...just to be clear.

### Your project’s problem

One of our challenges is that Exercism is a large project, which can make knowing where to start intimidating and overwhelming.
Ensuring that contributors have a frictionless contribution experience, are able to find and adhere to our guidance, and (most importantly) feel like they can communicate clearly in the "Exercism way" with our other contributors, is vital.

As we have developed tighter quality-control and implemented firmer standards across different parts of the project, there is more that new contributors have to understand to get started, which has increased the barrier to contribute.
We need to ensure that new contributors can find both clear introductory paths and comprehensive supporting details when needed.
Good documentation is absolutely critical to ensuring that new contributors can find pathways to get started, and not get blocked or feel frustration while trying to help.
We believe it is a crucial part of enabling Exercism to reach its potential.

New contributors not only help Exercism grow, they provide important improvements in the experience for hundreds of thousands of new students who use our platform each year.

> As part of the launch of our new version of the site launch soon, we have developed a whole "docs" section. You can preview the WIP version here: https://exercism.lol/docs

Author: ```suggestion
As part of the approaching launch of our new version of the site launch soon, we have developed a whole "docs" mini-site. You can preview the WIP version here: https://exercism.lol/docs
```

> As part of the approaching launch of our new version of the site launch soon, we have developed a whole "docs" mini-site. You can preview the WIP version here: https://exercism.lol/docs

Reviewer 4: > As part of the approaching launch of our new version of the site launch soon, we have developed a whole "docs" mini-site. You can preview the WIP version here: https://exercism.lol/docs

Suggest removing "soon":  

As part of the approaching launch of our new version of the site, we have developed a whole "docs" mini-site. You can preview the WIP version here: https://exercism.lol/docs

Author: https://github.com/exercism/docs/commit/18ee2e723a4225de81b89ade36839ed4b0cdc617 :+1:
